docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome to Tempo

> A privacy-first, self-hosted Strava alternative. Import GPX, FIT, and CSV files from Garmin, Apple Watch, Strava, and more. Keep all your data local—no subscriptions, no cloud required.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.3.0-green.svg)
![.NET](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-9.0-purple.svg)
![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-16-black.svg)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Join%20Server-5865F2?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/9Svd99npyj)

## What is Tempo?

Tempo is a self-hostable running tracker that gives you complete control over your fitness data. Unlike cloud-based services, Tempo runs entirely on your own infrastructure, ensuring your workout data stays private and secure.

## Key Features

- **Multi-Format Support** - Import GPX, FIT (.fit, .fit.gz), and Strava CSV files from Garmin, Apple Watch, and other devices
- **Workout Analytics** - Track distance, pace, elevation, splits, and time series data
- **Interactive Maps** - Visualize routes with elevation profiles
- **Media Support** - Attach photos and videos to workouts
- **Weather Data** - Automatic weather conditions for each workout
- **Bulk Import** - Import multiple workouts at once via ZIP file (up to 500MB)
- **Data Export** - Export all your data in a portable ZIP format for backup and migration
- **Heart Rate Zones** - Calculate zones using Age-based, Karvonen, or Custom methods
- **Relative Effort** - Automatic calculation of workout intensity based on heart rate zones
- **Best Efforts** - Track your fastest times for standard distances (400m to Marathon) from any segment within workouts
- **Shoe Tracking** - Track mileage on your running shoes and know when to replace them
- **Workout Editing** - Crop/trim workouts and edit activity names
- **Statistics Dashboards** - Weekly and yearly statistics with relative effort tracking
- **Unit Preferences** - Switch between metric and imperial units
- **100% Local** - All data stays on your machine, no cloud sync required

## Quick Start

Get Tempo running in minutes with Docker Compose:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/trevordavies095/tempo.git
cd tempo

# Start all services
docker-compose up -d

# Access the application
# Frontend: http://localhost:3000
# API: http://localhost:5001
```

That's it! The database migrations run automatically on first startup.

## Documentation Sections

### [Getting Started](getting-started/index.md)
Learn how to install and configure Tempo for your environment. Includes quick start guides, installation methods, and initial configuration.

### [User Guide](user-guide/index.md)
Complete guide for using Tempo as an end user. Learn how to import workouts, view analytics, manage media, and configure settings.

### [Developer Documentation](developers/index.md)
Technical documentation for developers. Architecture overview, local development setup, API reference, database schema, and contributing guidelines.

### [Deployment](deployment/index.md)
Production deployment guides, security best practices, backup and restore procedures, and performance optimization.

### [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting/index.md)
Common issues, solutions, and frequently asked questions to help you resolve problems quickly.

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Next.js 16, React 19, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: ASP.NET Core (.NET 9) Minimal APIs
- **Database**: PostgreSQL 16
- **State Management**: TanStack Query

## Support

- **Discord**: Join our community on [Discord](https://discord.gg/9Svd99npyj) for support and discussions
- **Issues**: Report bugs or request features on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/trevordavies095/tempo/issues)
- **Changelog**: See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/trevordavies095/tempo/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for version history and updates

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

Commit message:

docs: Add comprehensive documentation for Tempo export import feature
Update all relevant documentation to reflect that the import feature is now
available and provide complete guidance on using it for backups, migrations,
and data recovery.

Documentation Updates:

1. Settings Documentation (docs/user-guide/settings.md)
   - Replace "coming soon" placeholder with full import documentation
   - Add step-by-step import process instructions
   - Document what data is imported (workouts, media, shoes, settings, etc.)
   - Explain duplicate detection behavior for all data types
   - Add import statistics and error reporting details
   - Include troubleshooting section for common import issues
   - Document import requirements (file format, size limits, version support)
   - Explain import behavior (GUID preservation, timestamp preservation)
   - Add use cases (backup restoration, migration, data recovery)

2. Backup and Restore Documentation (docs/deployment/backup-restore.md)
   - Update comparison table to show import is now available
   - Add "Data Import as Restore" section with:
     * Step-by-step restore process using import feature
     * Comparison table (Import vs Database Restore)
     * Recommendations for when to use each method
   - Update recommendations to include import as a restore option

3. Main Index (docs/index.md)
   - Add "Data Import" to Key Features list
   - Describe as: "Restore complete backups, migrate between instances,
     and recover from data loss"

4. User Guide Index (docs/user-guide/index.md)
   - Update Settings description to mention backup restoration capability
   - Add "Backup and Restore" workflow to Common Workflows section

All documentation now accurately reflects that users can:
- Import complete Tempo export ZIP files
- Restore backups with automatic duplicate detection
- Migrate data between Tempo instances
- Recover from data loss or accidental deletion

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome to Tempo

> A privacy-first, self-hosted Strava alternative. Import GPX, FIT, and CSV files from Garmin, Apple Watch, Strava, and more. Keep all your data local—no subscriptions, no cloud required.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.3.0-green.svg)
![.NET](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-9.0-purple.svg)
![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-16-black.svg)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Join%20Server-5865F2?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/9Svd99npyj)

## What is Tempo?

Tempo is a self-hostable running tracker that gives you complete control over your fitness data. Unlike cloud-based services, Tempo runs entirely on your own infrastructure, ensuring your workout data stays private and secure.

## Key Features

- **Multi-Format Support** - Import GPX, FIT (.fit, .fit.gz), and Strava CSV files from Garmin, Apple Watch, and other devices
- **Workout Analytics** - Track distance, pace, elevation, splits, and time series data
- **Interactive Maps** - Visualize routes with elevation profiles
- **Media Support** - Attach photos and videos to workouts
- **Weather Data** - Automatic weather conditions for each workout
- **Bulk Import** - Import multiple workouts at once via ZIP file (up to 500MB)
- **Data Export** - Export all your data in a portable ZIP format for backup and migration
- **Data Import** - Restore complete backups, migrate between instances, and recover from data loss
- **Heart Rate Zones** - Calculate zones using Age-based, Karvonen, or Custom methods
- **Relative Effort** - Automatic calculation of workout intensity based on heart rate zones
- **Best Efforts** - Track your fastest times for standard distances (400m to Marathon) from any segment within workouts
- **Shoe Tracking** - Track mileage on your running shoes and know when to replace them
- **Workout Editing** - Crop/trim workouts and edit activity names
- **Statistics Dashboards** - Weekly and yearly statistics with relative effort tracking
- **Unit Preferences** - Switch between metric and imperial units
- **100% Local** - All data stays on your machine, no cloud sync required

## Quick Start

Get Tempo running in minutes with Docker Compose:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/trevordavies095/tempo.git
cd tempo

# Start all services
docker-compose up -d

# Access the application
# Frontend: http://localhost:3000
# API: http://localhost:5001
```

That's it! The database migrations run automatically on first startup.

## Documentation Sections

### [Getting Started](getting-started/index.md)
Learn how to install and configure Tempo for your environment. Includes quick start guides, installation methods, and initial configuration.

### [User Guide](user-guide/index.md)
Complete guide for using Tempo as an end user. Learn how to import workouts, view analytics, manage media, and configure settings.

### [Developer Documentation](developers/index.md)
Technical documentation for developers. Architecture overview, local development setup, API reference, database schema, and contributing guidelines.

### [Deployment](deployment/index.md)
Production deployment guides, security best practices, backup and restore procedures, and performance optimization.

### [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting/index.md)
Common issues, solutions, and frequently asked questions to help you resolve problems quickly.

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Next.js 16, React 19, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS
- **Backend**: ASP.NET Core (.NET 9) Minimal APIs
- **Database**: PostgreSQL 16
- **State Management**: TanStack Query

## Support

- **Discord**: Join our community on [Discord](https://discord.gg/9Svd99npyj) for support and discussions
- **Issues**: Report bugs or request features on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/trevordavies095/tempo/issues)
- **Changelog**: See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/trevordavies095/tempo/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for version history and updates

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details
